I see a lot of very cynical very harsh
criticisms of the left-wing from people
who seem to think that politics works
like a mathematical formula from people
who seem to think that political
discourse and debate is a sort of
competition to see who can snub who the
fastest and the hardest who can throw
out certain symbolic flags like
accusations of having made am a logical
fallacy proof of some kind of hidden
ulterior motive bad intent flaw in
reasoning as if we're both standing in
front of a chalkboard in an academic
setting in a university and we're just
gonna cross out the other person's
formula politics is not a mathematical
equation on the contrary I'd say that
you know the scope for meaningful
sincere political discourse requires a
certain kind of attachment very similar
to self-mockery the ability to laugh at
yourself the ability to take a step back
and look at that chalkboard and say does
this really make sense
maybe I started drawing this picture in
the chalkboard with the best of equate
best of intentions it's [ __ ] me but
what were my intentions now that I've
got this all written out what were my
objectives and for the two of you
together in the debate to be able to
examine the objectives to be able to
examine the means being employed and to
come to productive conclusions not just
about right and wrong in such a simple
sense the people I see doing this the
people who are so-called anti sjw's anti
social justice warriors anti-feminists
these kind of people I don't know in
their minds what they think they
accomplish by proving that someone else
has indulged in a logical fallacy it
seems to me they really invoke the name
of
reason with a capital R but they have
absolutely no interest in being
reasonable and both sides I need to ask
before getting into an issue like this
can you laugh at yourself can you look
at this with a little bit of detachment
can you recognize the absurdity in
something if you really care about it
because it is absurd there are some
people watching this video who will just
be shocked even at the title why do
left-wing feminists hate veganism some
people coming in from the outside might
assume the opposite aren't vegans just a
bunch of left-wing feminists anyway
we're not what we hear again and again
what we as vegans hear from the far left
wing from the intersectional feminists
from the anti-racist left-wing well
here's a line of reasoning that claims
that veganism is elitist veganism is
somehow ineluctably linked to white
privilege it is therefore elitist
therefore the left wing should just eat
hamburgers like the working class can we
take a step back and laugh at how absurd
that is can we take a step back and say
hey people who identify themselves as
the representatives of the working poor
the unionized factory workers the you
know peasants in their uprisings and
revolts traditional left wingers they
are reproaching vegans for being elitist
and rejecting veganism for being
insufficiently working-class can we can
we just stop and look not in the sense
of this is a logical fallacy not in the
sense of I'm trying to snub you or call
you stupid can we take a step back look
at the blackboard and ask what was the
problem we were trying to solve in the
first place what were our objectives and
how we can accomplish those objectives
because it can't be it can't be that
telling vegans to eat hamburgers because
if they don't they're members of an
elitist
an elitist white privilige movement this
can't be the way forward for either
party engaged in the debate veganism is
racist they claim therefore eat a
hamburger because that's somehow better
for Mexican farmworkers how absurd is
that can we take a step back and we have
a laugh about it and can we see a way to
move forward from this bizarre impasse
these types of arguments only seem
plausible when they're stated within a
set of familiar ideological terms that
people involved in intersectional ism
left-wing feminism they've heard a
million times and as soon as we take it
out of those familiar terms put it more
down-to-earth language or just rephrase
rephrase the complaints as questions and
this kind of thing the line of reasoning
here soon starts to fall apart and it's
just fall apart I'll just jump ahead
Marvin here for very simple reason these
are not mutually exclusive moral
concepts if you are concerned about
Mexican farmworkers good and again if
we're gonna use the the SJW vocabulary
here it would be non-white workers from
the global South who are the victims of
capitalist oppression in producing fruit
and vegetables this kind of language ok
that's your concern good start a
foundation start a charity and let's say
you employ triplets in that charity
identical triplets you got three guys
who are triplets working in your charity
in Mexico we are trying to help I don't
know
farm laborers who help pick strawberries
every year in in Mexico okay great I'm
happy at that charity there are still
questions of moral better and worse
just simple relative pragmatic moral
questions you have three triplets
they're doing exactly the same job from
9:00 to 5:00 doing something I don't
know what
to help Mexican peasant laborers in that
global south working for your charity
working for your foundation but you know
what one of them is a cocaine user
one of them he's not an addict let's say
he uses cocaine once every two weeks you
got to take him aside and say you know
Chuck what you're doing is good but it
would be even better
if you quit using cocaine what you're
doing helping the farm works is good and
then the other twin Dan take Dan aside
sit look Dan what you're doing here
every day helping these guys on the
strawberry farm is good but if you quit
smoking that will be even better not
mutually exclusive you could be a chain
smoker and do this kind of work with the
downtrodden workers the world or you
could quit smoking that would be even
better and then maybe the third twin you
gotta say look Steven I really
appreciate the work you're doing on this
farm
if you quit eating hamburgers if you
quit eating hamburgers from McDonald's
that'd be even better there's no reason
for there to be a conflict between these
ideologies and we're not if we get past
the ideologies we're really just talking
about humanitarian motives we're really
just talking about people who want to
make the world a better place in more
ways than one there's no reason why one
problem-solving method or one set of
moral concerns or one set of health
concerns would exclude the other none
but the reason why we as vegans get
attacked again and again by the left
wing by left-wing feminists
intersectional anti-racist cetera is the
misconception that veganism itself is
elitist and that that elitism is a form
of white America centric or euro centric
elitism and that therefore these left
wingers will lose their credentials
they'll lose their status as I suppose
the representatives of the working class
and the downtrodden laborers and of the
of the non-white masses who are
supposedly about to rise up
rebellion if they identify themselves
with the image that they see on the
packaging of the carton of soymilk now I
want to say this is a really serious
disclaimer I hope there are at least a
few left-wing people who watch this
video and stay with it the full ten
minutes in now social justice warriors
do have some legitimate concerns about
racism and white privilege within
veganism unfortunately their concerns
tend to kind of begin and end with
ignorance they're not nuanced they're
not informed by what's really going on
within veganism and they tend to follow
this absurd leap of inference that
veganism is racist and therefore
worthless
now I've already conceded the point
racism is an issue within veganism and I
can give you a really important example
that is nuanced and is based on
knowledge experience and research I
think there's a really interesting and
insidious form of racism surrounding
white vegans living in Thailand white
vegans who go on vacation or a long term
vacation leave in Thailand for a year
for several years there is a bizarre or
kind of a moral sensibility there's a
bizarre and I do think slightly racist
utterly elitist worldview amongst white
vegans who go to Thailand and who seem
to have absolutely no interest in the
political reality social reality
economic reality of Thailand and what
has been front-page news in Thailand
since the year 2014 ok political
condition in time in Thailand have been
dicey for many many years for the
purposes of this video I will say no
more google it Wikipedia ok politics in
Thailand have been extreme and extremely
dangerous and we have these white people
who are going there and basically
putting on rose-colored glasses and
imagine they live in paradise and they
do have a to store
and bias effect on veganism as a social
movement that is a complex example of I
think race issues and racism and white
privilege and elitism within veganism
being truly problematic and if you
search this channel for the word racist
if you search this channel for the word
Thailand if you search this channel for
the word Nazi you're actually gonna find
many many videos in this channel where I
am sharing some of the concerns of a
stereotypical social justice warrior or
a far left-wing intersectional list even
though I don't identify with those
people some of their concerns are valid
and you'll hear me talking through those
problems than veganism in a very
critical down-to-earth pragmatic way
that doesn't rely on the ideological
vocabulary of the far left wing because
I'm not I'm not left-wing without any of
this knowledge this kind of insider
in-depth knowledge of what the racial
problems in veganism are what I see the
social justice warriors doing is saying
in effect quote I'm too left-wing to be
vegan or that they feel they are too
working-class to be vegan or that they
are too anti racist to be vegan that
somehow these other priorities simply
matter so much more than veganism and
veganism this is the real issue they
perceive veganism as being by and for
the rich by and for a wealthy white
elite and therefore any connection with
themselves in veganism is something to
be avoided now look this is untrue in 10
and 20 different ways which maybe we
don't need to talk about in this video I
mean none of these left-wing people they
all they all seem to start from the
assumption that the world of veganism is
the world they see in advertising for
soy milk and in soy milk advertisements
you may indeed see only white women in
bikinis or something I don't know it's
same with soap what do you see in soap
advertising that means soap is only for
rich white people what do you see in
shampoo advertising I mean come on this
is ridiculous the reality of veganism is
that places like India or
tremendously important places like China
are tremendous important Taiwan and
Israel are the two leading centers of
veganism Taiwan and Israel both with
their own involuted and complex racial
and political problems but this is not a
simple instance of a black versus white
you know American political issue on a
global scale you know what the current
politics of veganism with in India are
fascinating and there's their real
potential in the next 20 years India is
gonna become the world's leading vegan
nation as it stands right now again
we're really looking at Taiwan in Israel
but there are I mean it should be
immediately obvious to you just in terms
of the history of Buddhism let's just
leave it at that point alone the history
of Buddhism alone in India and China
sets a basis for the growth and
expansion of veganism the next 20 years
that has nothing to do with white
privilege that has nothing to do with
what you may see on your carton of soy
milk if you're living in California or
France or Germany for that matter all
right
so but again they're looking at this
from the outside I do find it immoral to
be blunt that so many of the left
wingers work from the premise that only
human needs matter the human needs must
be paramount that human issues such as
racism such as pardon me such as
unionizing onion as workers farm
conditions factory conditions that human
needs must be dealt with first and this
is immoral for two reasons one as I've
already mentioned they're not mutually
exclusive you can be working on farm
conditions factory conditions etc like
the triplets I described and at the same
time you can be begin there's just no
reason why they're mutually exclusive
it's also profoundly immoral because you
must understand that human needs are
infinite we will never end every war we
will never end all poverty we will never
end all
racism or all oppression we will never
make every factory up to grade a
conditions if what you are saying is
that human needs always come first then
it means that we will never address
animal needs because you're putting them
lower than a priority that is infinite
and inexhaustible by definition what do
you think after the Syrian civil war is
over we're gonna deal with veganism
after the after Iraq has settled down
after Afghanistan is a peaceful
democracy do you think look look
yourself in the mirror what date on the
calendar do you think Iran Afghanistan
Syria will be peaceful democracies and
after that you think veganism is gonna
be priority animal rights ecology
veganism only if that you think there
won't be some other fire somewhere else
in the world you won't be some other
catastrophe by definition the challenge
of human rights put it that way is
infinite and exhaustible so if you do
not prioritize animal rights to come
first or to be simultaneous then animal
rights will never be exhausted and the
good news is about veganism veganism is
a moral and political cause you can
address here and now while at the same
time addressing all those other problems
you can be a soldier in the army
fighting in that war and Eve Eagan you
can be a peace protester protesting
against that war and be vegan veganism
is compatible with all sides of every
conflict and with all aspects of every
humanitarian cause it is also morally
disturbing that so many of these people
they don't just want to make human needs
and concerns paramount they insist that
it's only white part of me
it must be non white working-class needs
that are paramount and therefore any
cause if it is associated with white
privilege is discounted as invalid
and I gotta tell you I don't feel that
way at all
I don't feel that we can define a virtue
so that virtue is exclusive to the poor
or that virtue is exclusive to factory
workers or that virtue is exclusive to
brown skinned people or black skinned
people
virtue is for everyone or else it is not
virtue some people are born rich I don't
want to discourage them from doing good
of any kind whether that's handing out
sacks of rice to starving people maybe
in Syria maybe in Laos or Cambodia rich
people can do charity work is that their
privilege you're damn right it is
or if that's being involved with
veganism ecology or animal rights I
recognise the same virtue the same moral
act the same motives and the same
consequences whether the person doing it
is rich or poor whether the person is
black or white and you should too
racism is a problem within veganism it
is white privilege is a distorting
myopic bias within veganism it is
problematic it is but at what point
would you discount the concept of
veganism itself simply because because
veganism is so racist at what point
would veganism have crossed that line
where the concept becomes untenable
because of these issues than veganism
I don't think you would discard
Catholicism this way Catholicism is an
amazing history of racism and yet nobody
says well the Catholic religion is
invalid simply because of racism they
get into other issues like whether or
not praying to God is an effective way
to end a flood get into all kinds of
other issues I don't see anyone
discounting Islam or Judaism or Buddhism
this way and yes even Buddhism does have
issues of race and racism within it
there are much deeper it's much worse
than any outsider would know okay I
complete
we concede the point to social justice
warriors to left-wing feminists to
intersectional as racism and white
privilege are problems within veganism
why can't you concede the point that
just like smoking cigarettes is a
problem just like using cocaine is a
problem that eating meat is a problem
within your movements and within your
lives if you have any interest in being
ethically accountable ecologically
responsible and basically decent human
beings